# Retasking a 2<sup>nd</sup> Gen Amazon Echo



A collection of data and code to retask various parts of a
2<sup>nd</sup> generation Echo.

Instalation instructions are at the end.  

## <p align=center>\*\*\* WARNING \*\*\*


The current setup for the microphones means that the data voltage for
the TLV320ADC3101 is too high. This is because the audio clocks
generated by the Raspberry Pi operate at a levels of 5v and the voltage
levels for the TLV320ADC3101 operate at 1.8v. As a result of this the
IOVDD and DVDD voltages rise from 1.8v to about 2.3v (measured) which is
above the maximum recommended rating of 1.95v but below the absolute
maximum of 2.5v. The documentation states that operating above the
recommended level could impact device reliability. An appropriate logic
level shifter should be used between the Pi and the TLV320ADC3101 but I
haven’t yet found one.

## Current Status

### Power Supply

The Echo power supply provides 3.8v, but, the LED/Mic board requires
3.8v, 3.3v and 1.8v to correctly function. In addition to this, if you
intend to power a Raspberry Pi then 5v is also needed.

In order to facilitate this a DC-DC Buck converter is used to step down
the 3.8v to 1.8v and DC-DC Boost converter to step it up to 5v. The 3.3v
is provided by the Raspberry Pi.

When using the Echo as the power supply for a Raspberry Pi 4 I had to
throttle the Pi to prevent under voltage. This was probably due to the
cheap Boost converter I was using.

### LED Ring

The LED ring is fully controllable via I<sup>2</sup>C and a program is
provided to show various LED patterns.

### Microphone Array

At the present moment you can only record from 2 of the 7 microphones.

Unfortunately, the Kernel provided for the Raspberry Pi does not include
the driver for the TLV320ADC3101. This means you either have to modify
the Kernel config and rebuild it, or copy the source file from the
Kernel source tree and compile it independently. I chose the latter since
it only take a few minutes as opposed to a few hours.

### Light Sensor

There is a light sensor on the LED Ring board located by the ACTION button. 
Based upon its I<sup>2</sup>C address (0x39) and the response to some I<sup>2</sup>C
queries I believe that this is an OSRAM TSL2540.

### Amplifier

The chip used by the amplifier is a TPA3118D2 which is, apparently, an
analogue input Class-D audio amplifier. Apart from that, I haven’t
investigated the amplifier yet.

## Installing

These instructions are based upon 64-bit Raspbian Lite OS version 12 (Bookworm).

You will need the following:

- A 1.8v DC-DC Buck converter
- A 5v DC-DC Boost converter (optional)
- A Logic Level Shifter capable of handling I<sup>2</sup>C
- A 37P 0.3mm pitch FPC/FFC breakout board
- A 24P 0.5mm pitch FPC/FFC breakout board

1. Wire everything up as shown in the [Wiring diagrams](Wiring/)
2. Upgrade and install required packages
```
sudo apt update
sudo apt upgrade
sudo apt install git i2c-tools libi2c-dev dkms
```
3. Add `i2c-dev` to `/etc/modules` using your favourite editor
4. Edit `/boot/firmware/config.txt` and uncomment or add the following 2 lines:
```
dtparam=i2c_arm=on 
dtparam=i2s=on
```
5. Reboot for changes to take effect
6. Clone the repository and cd into it.
```
git clone https://github.com/SynAckFin/Echo-Retasker.git
```
7. Setup various gpios. The privacy LED should turn off.
```
sh gpiosetup
```
8. Build and test the LED ring app.
```
cd ledring
make
./ledring -h
./ledring test
cd ..
```
9. Build and install the ADC driver
```
cd driver
sudo make install
sudo dtoverlay echo-2mic
```
10. Configure the audio (only needs to be done once)
```
alsactl --no-ucm -f asound.conf restore
```
11. Record 30 seconds of audio to test microphones
```
arecord -D plughw:CARD=echo2micvoiceca,DEV=0 -r 16000 -c 2 -f S16_LE -t wav -d 30 test.wav
```




